Oct (#2168)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/oct/oct.md

---
Title: 'oct()' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Used to get an octal value of an integer number' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science' 
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **oct()** function takes an argument and returns an integer converted into an octal string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`oct()`** function takes an integer and returns the corresponding octal string.

```

## Syntax

```py
oct(integer)
```

> Where `integer` is the value which is to be converted into an octal string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `integer` is the value to be converted into an octal string.

```

The function returns an octal string.

## Example

> This example gets an octal value of a decimal number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example returns the octal string for the value `10`.

```

```py
# Python oct() function example  
# Calling function  
val = oct(10)  
# Displaying result  
print("Octal value of 10:",val)  
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
# Octal value of 10: 0o12
```

## Example 2

> In Python, binary and hexadecimal values are integer values. So, the `oct()` function can return octal conversion of binary and hexadecimal values as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Python, binary and hexadecimal values are integer values. So, the `oct()` function can convert binary and hexadecimal values as well. 

```

```py

> # Python oct() function example  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# Calling function  
val  = oct(0b0101) # Binary to octal  
val2 = oct(0XAF) # Hexadecimal to octal  
# Displaying result  

> # binary number  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Binary number  

```

print("Octal value of 0b0101:",val)  

> # hexadecimal number  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Hexadecimal number  

```

---
Title: 'oct()' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

Description: 'Used to get an octal value of an integer number' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!

>   - 'Computer Science'

Author: ```suggestion
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science' 
  - 'Code Foundations'
```

---
Title: 'oct()' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

Description: 'Used to get an octal value of an integer number' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science' 
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Functions'

>   - 'Numbers'

Author: ```suggestion
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Data Types'
```

---
Title: 'oct()' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

Description: 'Used to get an octal value of an integer number' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science' 
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **oct()** function takes an argument and returns an integer converted into an octal string.

## Syntax

```py
oct(integer)
```
Where `integer` is the value which is to be converted into an octal string.

The function returns an octal string.

## Example

This example gets an octal value of a decimal number.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

```py
# Python oct() function example  
# Calling function  
val = oct(10)  
# Displaying result  
print("Octal value of 10:",val)  

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
# Octal value of 10: 0o12
```

## Example 2

In Python, binary and hexadecimal values are integer values. So, the `oct()` function can return octal conversion of binary and hexadecimal values as well. 

```py
# Python oct() function example  
# Calling function  
val  = oct(0b0101) # Binary to octal  
val2 = oct(0XAF) # Hexadecimal to octal  
# Displaying result  
# binary number  
print("Octal value of 0b0101:",val)  
# hexadecimal number  
print("Octal value of 0XAF:",val2)  
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
# Octal value of 0b0101: 0o5
# Octal value of 0XAF: 0o257
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

Description: 'Python oct() function is used to get an octal value of an integer number' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Python'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Coding'
  - 'numbers'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'iOS-path-course'
  - 'path/iOS developer'
---

[**This** method takes an argument and returns an integer converted into an octal string.]

## Syntax

```py
oct(integer)
```

> ### Parameters

Author: you want me to delete the parameters header

> ### Parameters

Reviewer 2: Yes

**integer**: value which is to be converted into an octal string.

### Returns 

It returns an octal string.

## Example

A simple python example to get an octal value of a decimal number.

```py
# Python oct() function example  
# Calling function  
val = oct(10)  
# Displaying result  
print("Octal value of 10:",val)  

```

### Output:

> ```py

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```shell
````

# Octal value of 10: 0o12
```

> ## Example 2

Author: I don't get what is the change I should do, I don't see any difference

> ## Example 2

Reviewer 2: @EngOmarAhmedIOS There's a line break after the header.

In Python, binary, hexadecimal values are integer values. So, we can get octal conversion of binary and hexadecimal values as well. 
See an example below. We can currently support:

```py
# Python oct() function example  
# Calling function  
val  = oct(0b0101) # Binary to octal  
val2 = oct(0XAF) # Hexadecimal to octal  
# Displaying result  
# binary number  
print("Octal value of 0b0101:",val)  
# hexadecimal number  
print("Octal value of 0XAF:",val2)  
```
### Output

> ```py

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```shell
````
